and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show excited to be joined by
alice de corsi today alice is the chief
marketing officer over at cognizam alisa
willi really warm welcome to the show
how are you doing yeah good thank you hi
yeah great to be here
excited to chat all things marketing
excellent good stuff that's exactly
right we're going to be talking all
about
why businesses where marketers need to
stop a skagon
approach when it comes to their
marketing and exactly how they can make
it more predictable
when it comes to kind of rather than
throwing marketing strategies in the air
hoping for hoping for the best they can
actually look at strategies that are
going to
kind of drive revenue and are going to
bring in that predictable
themselves predictable growth to to
their business into the strategies that
they implement
so first things first i mean this this
might sound like a stupid question but
it gives us a great starting point
why is the scatter gun approach why is
just doing what you think is going to
work when it comes to your marketing
alice why is that a good or a bad idea
yeah so i guess i'll go in one step
further which is what like what do i
mean by scattergun
um and i think for me very much this is
like the state sometimes a marketing
team is in
maybe in the early days or in like a
very sales-led organization where
perhaps marketing is
um maybe seen as like second to sales
and it's basically i would say like the
reactive marketing so
you're being asked to service various
parts of business with lots of ad hoc
requests
there's little to no strategy behind
that um and it can be
quite daunting if you come into that
sort of situation or you're in that
situation
like how do you turn that around and how
do you build out a predictable strategy
from that um because you can get so busy
just
executing the tasks you're being asked
to without actually stepping back and
thinking of
the bigger picture and the strategy
behind it
got it so you mentioned an interesting
point straight away talking about
reactive marketing so when when we say
that i mean is
is there a difference to give myself to
give people tuning in an idea what
what would you say is the the kind of
differentiator between reactive
uh marketing and something that's more
of a proactive approach
yeah so i think that this was quite key
when i said for example when i came into
cognizant
um there wasn't a plan or a strategy in
place so right now
now we plan you know h1 and h2 we put
together a strategy
that gets sort of signed off across all
of the key stakeholders within the
business and that's what we go and
execute
we then use we have reserve 10 capacity
for things that would fall outside of
that because you
there is you do need to be reactive
sometimes but
the rest of the time we're focused on
those things that we have
thought about and planned for um based
on
like strategic in-depth analysis on the
data
and plays that we know have worked
before or that we're going to test and
drive forward
so that i guess yeah for me that's
different
yeah yeah yeah that and that makes sense
so if we're looking at this
from perhaps whether it's a small
business whether it's a new business
approach
and and they're they've perhaps got a
few ideas in the yes they're pr
perhaps they're a service-based business
so maybe they've got a few products they
offer to businesses
but they're thinking about how how to
bring it to market
um when it comes to kind of avoiding
scattering on approach so they might
think look
facebook ads can perhaps get me some
fast traffic perhaps i need to look at
seo
perhaps i need to look at google ads
perhaps i should be on linkedin
rather than just trying all these
channels how can how can a business
adopt something that's
going to be a bit more predictable are
there certain foundations that they need
to think about
before they just start trying all these
different strategies and such
yeah that's a great question so um i
guess let's break it down
um it's a great thing when you come in
there's all these things you could try
or get going with it's hard to know like
where to start so
start with the low-hanging fruit so
kicking off some of the activities
that as well that would take longer to
realize results but are vital
for predictability so i'm going to break
it into like the four things that i
think about
so the first one is paid strategy so
that is
very much your low hanging fruit there
um you want to get your bottom of the
funnel add strategy and placement in
order
um defining who's going to own that it
needs to be someone who's looking at it
full time
no set and forget you need to think
about where you're going to place your
first
bet so like you were talking about what
channels should those be on
and then how are you going to test and
optimize those so
you need to have a testing framework and
a review process in place
we do this at congressman two weekly
sprints um
and we have like a hypothesis testing
framework that we use for any um
test that we'd run and you know you're
going to be testing
there's all variations not only you're
testing the channel you're testing the
messaging and you're testing the offer
um so you want to think about what's the
low hanging fruit
that we can target first and that should
be where you start and then
you need to optimize that low hanging
fruit and then you build out from there
um so that's number one could we get an
example as well
just so something tangible whether it's
for cognitive and whether it's
for someone else what might be an
example of something that's that's going
to be low hanging through that's going
to be
something we should tap into straight
away so straightaway i would get
competitor
adwords live so why i feel like that's a
low hanging free it depends obviously
the search volume for that
you need to go and see if that's
actually something that's going to bring
you meaningful
traffic um and will work for your
business but
assuming that does and that ticks that
box then you would i would say get those
live so
um create dedicated landing pages create
the messaging
get the ad copy and start optimizing and
testing that and your bidding strategy
um because that's high intent traffic
that is already
that you're missing out on straight away
if you don't have those live so
got it looking at what's working out for
competition in your market and then
tapping into that
as in what's going to be relevant for
for yourselves for your industry for
your sector
well just literally looking at the
competitors within your space
bidding on their brand keyword terms and
okay
having you having your own campaign set
up for that dedicated landing pages
um and that would be where i'd start
that
to almost steal their traffic when it
comes to this yeah
yeah exactly so that would be that'd be
my first thing
and then we'd look at building that out
further but yeah that would be where i'd
start
um then then i'd say like it's time to
time start thinking about the content
plays so um
i think we're going to cover it a bit
more later but you need to kick off your
keyword research so do an audit of your
current positions
organize your keyword strategy into
priority order and how you should do
this is look at
what are the highest intent keywords
that have good volume but low capacity
like
local difficulty um and those should be
like your priority one
keywords that you want to go after um
don't
get overwhelmed because when you start
thinking about content strategy there's
so much you could do
so um if you want to do this smartly
then there's sort of an incremental way
in which you can approach it
um so at communism for example we'll
have pillar pieces that can be broken
down
and feed into not only our seo
objectives but also
campaign objectives and brand objectives
as well
and then the final thing i'd say is that
you want to kick off your campaigns and
demand gem movements
again i would recommend working in two
weekly sprints
and keeping it really simple so just
focusing on offer message and audience
that combination
um and then you wanna the final top tip
on this i'd say is
don't stop before you get started by
thinking about how could i scale this
just build the demand and then scale it
so
a like example of this we had um
we really wanted to try a different call
to action rather than just a demo we
wanted to give value before we asked for
anything
so we um came up with this idea to offer
a sample of our data to our
um prospects in some of our campaigns we
call it free leads
and we actually change that messaging
depending on the audience and
that has worked really really well for
us but we at the start it was literally
just my
me and my marketing team pulling that
data from our platform sending it across
in an excel
because we didn't have a way to scale it
but now it's
one of the most successful campaigns
delivered a huge amount of revenue to
the business we
you know my ceo didn't tell me off for
coming up with that idea and actually
we've come up
through engineering with a way of
scaling it further so yeah that would be
another tip on this like all of those
okay so just starting breaking down some
of that from the top so talking about
a keyword strategy talking about seo so
when we say
kind of looking at perhaps the higher
intent and looking at kind of
maybe longer tail keywords after can you
would you be able to give us an example
um so for anyone tuning in that's
perhaps not as fluent in seo
as uri what that should look like so
let's say well let's take home them for
example we at our essa core are a b2b
data provider um so
for us like the highest intent keyword
search term that
we probably that we've bid on in its
most six is um b2b
data now that has a high intent
high converting now i mean we're sort of
two months two years into this so we
know that it's our best campaign
um low volume and low competitive
score so that for us is like gold dust
and that ticks all of the boxes
so it's about finding you're going to
have to test this as well because the
intent piece does need a bit of testing
but it's what's the closest keyword that
you can get to what your product
actually offers
and then the key is when you're building
out the copy for the landing page
is that that really reflects it as well
so you don't want them to land
never send them to the home page don't
then send them to a website page create
dedicated landing pages for
all of your um campaigns within google
and make sure you're building out highly
relevant content to
that search term um yeah that you're
bidding on
when and we've we've covered landing
pages a little bit in in some episodes
alice but have you got any top tips when
it comes to the landing page because i
know
everyone and obviously a landing page
for paid ads is going to be different to
what we're talking about now
something that's going to be organic
perhaps in terms or may
it might not be in terms of perhaps the
structure in terms of what needs to be
made up
in that any pro tips when it comes to
making sure the content's on the mark to
making sure it's relevant to make sure
it builds
trust with people when they land on it
and most importantly
in most of our cases we want it to
convert so we actually want that user to
be able to
take action and whether that's requested
demo whether that's request
a free sample whatever that action is we
want them to take
yeah so i guess with your questions
that's mainly aimed at like a converting
page so we'll go for like a google ads
page what would our best practice be on
that so
um first of all like i said dedicated
page don't you actually don't
really want a navigationable header you
want to make sure you're keeping them on
that page
but then you need to provide enough
context and copy to
convince them to take an action so i
always have the form right near the top
i have a clear header
we always like to write copy like we
talk
so try and forget about all the
slang like the marketing slang so to
speak and just
very clearly identify what the pain
point is that you're going to be solving
with that offer
um you want to have your proof points so
um you need to have your case studies
or quotes from case studies and some
badges so we always have our g2 badges
in support of
the combs that we're making and actually
we have found that longer
landing pages convert better so we used
to have like really
you know a landing page that was pretty
much two parts header
brief information form on the right hand
side and then a bit of
social proof we've actually really come
to realize that adding more context
into that landing page so adding like
another two or three sections about that
topic has really helped us
to increase conversions interesting okay
so the more more content the more more
that's there tends to work better
from your experience yeah got it
okay and i love the point about writing
how you talk
something i um i was certainly guilty of
especially when i got into digital
marketing i was using jargon all the
time
and half the time when i was on the
phone to clients i'd be using all these
analogies all these terms that only
myself and the web team knew and it's
half the time the customers were like
what the hell does that mean sam and i'm
and i realized some of the terms i'm
using i don't even know the full extent
of um
so when you when you start to simplify
things like you've mentioned it's
it kind of makes it easier for your
customers i guess not just on your
digital materials whether it's your
website your landing pages your ads
when you when it comes to translating
through to your sales team as well
if they're using the language they're
using the exact terms
that your actual customers talk to you
about when they describe your product or
service
it's only gonna help right yeah and i
think we use jargon too much like we
feel like that makes us
seem more important or like we know what
we're talking about but that's not how
people are buying that's not what
they're searching for that's not
like what their intent is in that action
so you know if you're searching for
how to do lead generation you don't want
to land on a page where the header is
mqls sqls ardo psls
yeah there's so many though isn't there
you're landing the page which is like
really clearly defining the steps you
need to take to get your end goal and
yeah with this little job as possible
yeah that's it
that's it completely up for that in
terms of kind of making things simple
and um ultimately whatever works and if
that is simplifying the language
if that's going to get us more inbound
opportunities then it's only a good
thing
okay so moving forward i know you
mentioned um
putting together perhaps content pillars
and then building demand um
what what would a content pillar look
like in a bit more depth from from the
content side of things are there certain
things we need to think about do we how
do we link that to our product or
service or what examples could you
perhaps share with us on that front
alice
yeah so i guess i'm just going to talk i
think i'll probably just talk you
through like how to kick off your
content strategy i think
and then within that i'll give you a
real example of what we did
so i think about it in three parts um
our seo strategy
our demand gen campaign strategy and our
brand content strategy
now depending on the stage your business
is at the amount of resources you have
available
um you may have to tie those three very
closely together if you're in the early
days
um and you have capacity constraints and
then as you scale you can sort of
separate those out into more separate
entities
so when i joined cognizam for example we
only had one content writer
doing everything so we had to be really
careful about how we targeted this
so what we did was we as i actually
mentioned we did a lot of keyword
research and we came up with what would
be our most
highly um valuable keyword that we
wanted to rank for organically
over the next six months for us that
would be to be lead generation
that's because the volume was there we
felt like the intent was there
um and it wasn't too competitive it was
competitive but not too competitive
so we mapped out the content um and the
content formats that we were going to
produce
um and these were all micro pieces of
content that would then
form one big pillar page on this topic
which was
what is b2b lead generation top tip
always ask a question
have that in the url and then answer it
in the first
paragraph of the page and so what we
were then able to do
was our over the course of the next
three months we were producing all of
this blog content a lot of it was
authored by people more authoritative in
the area than we were
um and we had ended up being able to
repackage
all of that content into an e-book which
we're getting to use for our demand gen
and con and campaigns execution and that
ebook actually became
five mini e-books as well um and these
could be used
in all of our campaigns and we were also
able to make videos from some of the top
performing snippets and blog posts that
were
trending really well and that formed
part of our brand and content play
so in the end what we had from this one
piece was that we had a page one google
ranking and the snippet
after three months we had a gated ebook
which actually had five mini ebooks
we had i was producing us a cost per
lead of 13
and we were converting that at a rate of
10 from mql to op
and then we had all these videos that
were serving our brand purposes across
all of our organic channels um and
actually improving the ranking of the
page as well because embedding a video
in a pillar page is a really good thing
to do
um so yeah that's i guess that's that's
how we
focused it when we were really small and
as we scaled it we've just built out
each of those three different entities
and yeah that's that's a great point so
for anyone that's
listening to all this and thinking well
that sounds like a
heck of a lot of work if we don't have
or we perhaps got a small marketing
department or perhaps it's only us
perhaps we've just got a small team
is this achievable ls if we if we are
perhaps doing all ourselves or we have
just got a small marketing
team is it something we can ramp up
ourselves 100 i've done it
during my previous role so we went after
the term legal operations if you
search that now in google you'll see
juro um as the page one ranking with the
snippet
and not only that the company i used to
work for which is a multi-million pound
company thompson reuters
we overtook for that search term and
they have i mean what
hundreds of thousands of employees so
and we were literally it was me in the
marketing team and a freelance writer
so yes you can do it if you apply this
technique
and then at cognizam again we did it
with just me and this one writer
just by taking that approach so you know
you can't
target you know five or six keywords but
you can go after one
and then you can build out a suite of
content which you can then repurpose and
use across
your different you know content strategy
pieces
seo demand gen brand got it
got it okay well we've we've gone quite
deep on on the seo front and that that
will make sense in terms of building
that foundation of the keyword and then
creating the content around that and and
going from there
um and is this is this more of a
long-term strategy so
appreciate typically paid ads tend to be
give us quicker results
and things like seo and content
typically tend to be more of a longer
term
journey are there any stages with either
the paid ads or with the seo with both
where we need to say well perhaps we can
start with the paid ads and say look
we've tested this specific campaign for
a week two weeks a month it's not giving
us the
the right kind of return let's ask it
let's move on to something else
what what what type of what times do
those conversations need to
take place if we perhaps start with a
paid ads because content's a bit
different
so two weekly sprints that's what we do
so we are probably pretty unique in this
but i believe you have enough data in
two weeks if you set a budget about 100
pounds a day
um and you can maybe even make it lower
than that if you really need to but
you'll be able to learn enough about
that campaign
on google to know if it's something to
maintain or optimize for
or just scrap all together so um we
always do it in two weekly sprints and
then we'll analyze we'll adjust
by the time we've done adjusting and
it's still not working that's when we
come to decision that
that just isn't an avenue for us to
continue down and we'll move on to
something else
makes sense yeah and when it comes to
content is it a case of
from your opinion once you've nailed
down that this search term or search
terms you want to hone in on
is it okay so we just create the content
we make it as valuable as possible we
follow these these strategies that
you've shared with us until we get that
page on results and still we start start
seeing the traffic seeing the
leads come in or is there a time when we
should
we've done enough and we need to move on
what are your thoughts there
so with the content piece it's it is
just a case of it like it will happen
over time assuming this is like caveated
very strongly with
you are producing quality authoritative
content
structured in the right way so like
those are the things that you need to
absolutely be nailing um quick ways that
work for you to be able to see if there
actually is demand
out there for the content that you're
producing i would
say is like so we run always on gated
content advertising through linkedin
and that really quickly tells us if um
a topic or yeah basically a topic is
going to resonate with our audience
because
yeah we'll either see that converting or
we won't and that's
quite a good way to you know establish
the things that you should start
focusing on as well nice yeah because
then you can actually see if people are
interested in i guess
and you and you don't need much budget
to establish that so yeah
interesting that's a new one okay well
appreciate your your
you're short on time today so just just
to wrap things up
in terms of everything we've gone
through in terms of um
being more proactive your marketing
approach making sure you implement a
strategy for your paid ads and make sure
you test it
regularly perhaps in two weeks sprints
and putting together content pillars
and working on more of the long term
gain from that front is there anything
else that we need to bear in mind
and we've not yet covered when it comes
to putting all the pieces of puzzle
together
um i think to be honest that's the main
one i would just say like don't get
overwhelmed
look at the low hanging fruit first
build it incrementally and scale it
as you start to see things working be
strict work in two weekly sprints
don't set and forget keep optimizing
um those are like yeah my main tips
really
brilliant well alice really appreciate
you coming on the show thanks very much
for
sharing your insights and if anyone else
wants if anyone tuning in wants to learn
more about yourself
your company how can they connect with
you how can they learn more about you
and what's the best way to get in touch
yeah so um my name's alice de corsi and
i'm
pretty active on linkedin it's probably
the best way to go and have a look at my
profile i'm posting quite a lot there
and then
for cognizam just going yeah check out
our website see what we do we're
at the heart we're a b2b contact um and
account database provider
but we have a lot more to it than that
awesome thanks once again for coming on
alex really appreciate it
thanks cheers if you enjoyed the show be
sure to hit subscribe for business grove
show where the heck you get your podcast
from we interview business leaders each
and every week
to provide actual tips across marketing
across sales or the goal to help you
grow your business
and grow your revenue and with that
we'll catch you on the next
episode